git@github.com:empeje/address-book-snap.git main
git@github.com:empeje/adopt-me.git master
git@github.com:empeje/akademi.git master
git@github.com:empeje/biggest-number.git master
git@github.com:empeje/blockchain-developer-bootcamp-final-project.git master
git@github.com:empeje/camera-callibration.git master
git@github.com:empeje/clarity-learning.git master
git@github.com:empeje/codementor-guide.git main
git@github.com:empeje/coin.git master
git@github.com:empeje/conf42-web-dev-eta.git main
git@github.com:empeje/cryptopals.git master
git@github.com:empeje/devops-article-series.git master
git@github.com:empeje/encode-bootcamp.git master
git@github.com:empeje/first-web-application-spring-mvc.git master
git@github.com:empeje/flask-upload-example.git main
git@github.com:empeje/gas-fee-snap.git main
git@github.com:empeje/gatsby-intermediate.git mpj-solution
git@github.com:empeje/gatsby-intro.git mpj-solution
git@github.com:empeje/gnosis-snap.git main
git@github.com:empeje/harvardx-data-science.git master
git@github.com:empeje/harvardx-ds-reboot.git master
git@github.com:empeje/homebrew-bos-cli.git main
git@github.com:empeje/i-am-rich.git master
git@github.com:empeje/jpegdegens.git master
git@github.com:empeje/keth.git master
git@github.com:empeje/kotlin-workshop.git master
git@github.com:empeje/last-mile-delivery.git master
git@github.com:empeje/learn-unit-testing.git master
git@github.com:empeje/learning-spring.git master
git@github.com:empeje/live-training-uniswap-v3.git master
git@github.com:empeje/madapp.git master
git@github.com:empeje/midtrans-iris-collections.git master
git@github.com:empeje/my-custom-gpts.git master
git@github.com:empeje/next-dashboard.git main
git@github.com:empeje/php-laravel-enlightn.git master
git@github.com:empeje/purr-spective.git main
git@github.com:empeje/reverse-proxy-demo.git master
git@github.com:empeje/russian-doll-caching.git master
git@github.com:empeje/scalawaw-eth-in-scala.git master
git@github.com:empeje/spring-in-5-steps.git master
git@github.com:empeje/stable-coin-xrp.git core
git@github.com:empeje/telecal.git main
git@github.com:empeje/telecal-bot.git main
git@github.com:empeje/tma-trial.git master
git@github.com:empeje/wallstreet.git main
git@github.com:empeje/webpigram.git main
